Procedure to Extract the Certificate and Key from a PFX File

Hardware / Software Requirement:

Unix / Linux Supported Machine
WinSCP
PFX file 
Any Terminal applications such as putty, secureCRT, managessh, teraterm



1. Place a request and get the PFX file from the App / Web team
2. Open the folder where the PFX file is loaded
3. Download the PFX file
4. Copy the encryption Password of the file (to paste during the extraction)
5. Log into Unix Machine via WinSCP
6. Copy the downloaded PFX file to the Unix Machine
7. Log into the Unix Machine via SecureCRT
8. Verify the file is present in the copied directory
		Run this command after entered in the specified directory 
		ls >> to list the files in the folder
9. Use the following command to extract the certificate, private key and any chain files (root) will be parsed and dumped into a single output file
		openssl pkcs12 -in PKCS12file.pfx -out Output.txt
		
		Instead of PKCS12file.pfx type the name of the file (must be in pfx format)
10. After entering the above command, will receive a prompt to enter the password
		Enter Import Password: (this is the password that was used when the PKCS12 file was created - copied in step 4)
		
		MAC verified OK

		Enter PEM pass phrase: (this is the private key password - use the same password copied in step 4)

		Verifying - Enter PEM pass phrase: (confirm the private key password - use the same password copied from in step 4)
		
11. You can view the extracted contents in the output file
		run the following command to view the text file
		cat Output.txt
12. To copy the certificate and key in separate file
		open the output file
		cat Output.txt
		
		copy the certificate content from  "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- ..... -----END CERTIFICATE-----"
		create a new file with .crt format and paste it and save it
		vi certificate.crt 
		Type i to insert
		paste the copied content
		press Escape >> type :wq >> press enter to save the file
		
		copy the private key content from  "-----BEGIN ENCRYPTED PRIVATE KEY----- ..... -----END ENCRYPTED PRIVATE KEY-----"
		create a new file with .key format and paste it and save it
		vi keys.key 
		Type i to insert
		paste the copied content
		press Escape >> type :wq >> press enter to save the file

13. To find the certificate expiry date run the following command
		openssl x509 -in certificate.crt -text -noout | grep -i "Not"
		
		output be like
            Not Before: Jun 22 00:00:00 2013 GMT
            Not After : Jun 21 23:59:59 2022 GMT
